<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="militarytime">
  <title>About <term>military time</term></title>

  <shortdesc>This topic explains what <term>military time</term> is and why it
  is used.</shortdesc>

  <prolog>
    <author type="creator">Heather Wymer</author>

    <copyright>
      <copyryear year="2008"/>

      <copyrholder>Swinburne University of Technology</copyrholder>
    </copyright>

    <critdates>
      <created date="6 Oct 2008"/>
    </critdates>

    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>military time</indexterm>

        <indexterm>24-hour clock</indexterm>

        <indexterm>standard time</indexterm>
      </keywords>

      <prodinfo>
        <prodname>World Time Pro</prodname>

        <vrmlist>
          <vrm version="2 trial"/>
        </vrmlist>
      </prodinfo>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>

  <conbody>
    <p><term>Military time</term> refers to a timekeeping system where the
    hours of the day are numbered 0-24, rather than the <term>standard
    time</term> system's numbering of 1-12 am and 1-12 pm. <term>Military
    time</term> is also called the <term>24-hour clock</term>. </p>

    <p><term>Military time</term> is written in the format hh.mm, where
    h=hours and m=minutes. Between 1.00 am and 12.59 pm <term>military
    time</term> and <term>standard time</term> look very similar. For example,
    4.30 am <term>standard time</term> is written as 04.30 in <term>military
    time</term>. However, after 12.59 pm it becomes slightly more difficult to
    correlate <term>military time</term> and <term>standard time</term>. For
    example, 6.08 pm <term>standard time</term> is written as 18.08 in
    <term>military time</term>. </p>

    <p>After 12.59 pm, an easy way to convert <term>military time</term> to
    <term>standard time</term> is to subtract 12 hours from the <term>military
    time</term> then add the pm suffix. For example, subtracting 12 hours from
    the <term>military time</term> of 17.45 gives the <term>standard
    time</term> of 5.45 pm.</p>

    <p>Midnight can be expressed as either 00.00 or 24.00 in <term>military
    time</term>. In practise, 00.00 is used to refer to the start of a day,
    and 24.00 to refer to the end of a day. </p>

    <p>As the name suggests, <term>military time</term> is used by the
    military to avoid potentially dangerous situations that may result if
    soldiers misunderstand <term>standard time</term>'s am or pm suffix.
    <term>Military time</term> is used in other industries where time is
    critical, such as computing, aviation, railway timetables and medical
    situations. <term>Military time</term> is the <term>ISO</term>
    international standard for the notation of time, and is used as instead of
    <term>standard time</term> in many countries, especially in Europe.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
